Bears PYTHON carnivoran mammals PYTHON PYTHON family Ursidae or They PYTHON classified as caniforms
or doglike carnivorans Although only eight species PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON extant they PYTHON
widespread appearing PYTHON PYTHON wide variety PYTHON habitats throughout PYTHON Northern
Hemisphere PYTHON partially PYTHON PYTHON Southern Hemisphere Bears PYTHON found on PYTHON
continents PYTHON North America South America Europe PYTHON Asia Common characteristics PYTHON
modern PYTHON include large bodies with stocky legs long snouts small rounded ears shaggy hair
plantigrade paws with five nonretractile claws PYTHON short tails While PYTHON polar PYTHON PYTHON
mostly carnivorous PYTHON PYTHON giant panda feeds almost entirely on bamboo PYTHON remaining six
species PYTHON omnivorous with varied diets With PYTHON exception PYTHON courting individuals
PYTHON mothers with their young PYTHON PYTHON typically solitary animals They may be diurnal or
nocturnal PYTHON have an excellent sense PYTHON smell Despite their heavy build PYTHON awkward gait
they PYTHON adept runners climbers PYTHON swimmers Bears use shelters such as caves PYTHON logs as
their dens most species occupy their dens during PYTHON winter for PYTHON long period PYTHON
hibernation up PYTHON days Bears have been hunted since prehistoric times for their meat PYTHON fur
they have been used for bearbaiting PYTHON other forms PYTHON entertainment such as being made
PYTHON dance With their powerful physical presence they play PYTHON prominent role PYTHON PYTHON
arts mythology PYTHON other cultural aspects PYTHON various human societies In modern times PYTHON
have come under pressure through encroachment on their habitats PYTHON illegal trade PYTHON PYTHON
parts including PYTHON Asian bile PYTHON market The IUCN lists six PYTHON species as vulnerable or
endangered PYTHON even least concern species such as PYTHON brown PYTHON PYTHON at risk PYTHON
extirpation PYTHON certain countries The poaching PYTHON international trade PYTHON these most
threatened populations PYTHON prohibited but still ongoing Etymology The English word PYTHON comes
from Old English bera PYTHON belongs PYTHON PYTHON family PYTHON names for PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON
Germanic languages such as Swedish björn also used as PYTHON first name This form PYTHON
conventionally said PYTHON be related PYTHON PYTHON ProtoIndoEuropean word for brown so that PYTHON
would mean PYTHON brown one However Ringe notes that while this etymology PYTHON semantically
plausible PYTHON word meaning brown PYTHON this form cannot be found PYTHON ProtoIndoEuropean He
suggests instead that PYTHON PYTHON from PYTHON ProtoIndoEuropean word ǵʰwḗr ǵʰwér wild animal This
terminology for PYTHON animal originated as PYTHON taboo avoidance term protoGermanic tribes
replaced their original word for beararktowith this euphemistic expression out PYTHON fear that
speaking PYTHON animals true name might cause it PYTHON appear According PYTHON author Ralph Keyes
this PYTHON PYTHON oldest known euphemismBear taxon names such as Arctoidea PYTHON Helarctos come
from PYTHON ancient Greek ἄρκτος arktos meaning PYTHON as do PYTHON names arctic PYTHON antarctic
via PYTHON name PYTHON PYTHON constellation Ursa Major PYTHON Great Bear prominent PYTHON PYTHON
northern skyBear taxon names such as Ursidae PYTHON Ursus come from Latin UrsusUrsa hebearshebear
The female first name Ursula originally derived from PYTHON Christian saints name means little
shebear diminutive PYTHON Latin ursa In Switzerland PYTHON male first name Urs PYTHON especially
popular while PYTHON name PYTHON PYTHON canton PYTHON city PYTHON Bern PYTHON derived from Bär
German for PYTHON The Germanic name Bernard including Bernhardt PYTHON similar forms means
bearbrave bearhardy or bold PYTHON The Old English name Beowulf PYTHON PYTHON kenning beewolf for
PYTHON PYTHON turn meaning PYTHON brave warrior Taxonomy The family Ursidae PYTHON one PYTHON nine
families PYTHON PYTHON suborder Caniformia or doglike carnivorans within PYTHON order Carnivora
Bears closest living relatives PYTHON PYTHON pinnipeds canids PYTHON musteloids Modern PYTHON
comprise eight species PYTHON three subfamilies Ailuropodinae monotypic with PYTHON giant panda
Tremarctinae monotypic with PYTHON spectacled PYTHON PYTHON Ursinae containing six species divided
into one PYTHON three genera depending on PYTHON authority Nuclear chromosome analysis show that
PYTHON karyotype PYTHON PYTHON six ursine PYTHON PYTHON nearly identical each having chromosomes
see Ursid hybrid whereas PYTHON giant panda has chromosomes PYTHON PYTHON spectacled PYTHON These
smaller numbers can be explained by PYTHON fusing PYTHON some chromosomes PYTHON PYTHON banding
patterns on these match those PYTHON PYTHON ursine species but differ from those PYTHON procyonids
which supports PYTHON inclusion PYTHON these two species PYTHON Ursidae rather than PYTHON
Procyonidae where they had been placed by some earlier authorities Evolution The earliest members
PYTHON Ursidae belong PYTHON PYTHON extinct subfamily Amphicynodontinae including Parictis late
Eocene PYTHON early middle Miocene Mya PYTHON PYTHON slightly younger Allocyon early Oligocene Mya
both from North America These animals looked very different from todays PYTHON being small PYTHON
raccoonlike PYTHON overall appearance with diets perhaps more similar PYTHON that PYTHON PYTHON
badger Parictis does not appear PYTHON Eurasia PYTHON Africa until PYTHON Miocene It PYTHON unclear
whether lateEocene ursids were also present PYTHON Eurasia although faunal exchange across PYTHON
Bering land bridge may have been possible during PYTHON major sea level low stand as early as
PYTHON late Eocene about Mya PYTHON continuing into PYTHON early Oligocene European genera
morphologically very similar PYTHON Allocyon PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON much younger American Kolponomos
about Mya PYTHON known from PYTHON Oligocene including Amphicticeps PYTHON Amphicynodon There has
been various morphological evidence linking amphicynodontines with pinnipeds as both groups were
semiaquatic otterlike mammals In addition PYTHON PYTHON support PYTHON PYTHON
pinnipedamphicynodontine clade other morphological PYTHON some molecular evidence supports PYTHON
being PYTHON closest living relatives PYTHON pinnipeds The raccoonsized doglike Cephalogale PYTHON
PYTHON oldestknown member PYTHON PYTHON subfamily Hemicyoninae which first appeared during PYTHON
middle Oligocene PYTHON Eurasia about Mya The subfamily includes PYTHON younger genera Phoberocyon
Mya PYTHON Plithocyon Mya A Cephalogalelike species gave rise PYTHON PYTHON genus Ursavus during
PYTHON early Oligocene Mya this genus proliferated into many species PYTHON Asia PYTHON PYTHON
ancestral PYTHON all living PYTHON Species PYTHON Ursavus subsequently entered North America
together with Amphicynodon PYTHON Cephalogale during PYTHON early Miocene Mya Members PYTHON PYTHON
living lineages PYTHON PYTHON diverged from Ursavus between PYTHON Mya likely via PYTHON species
Ursavus elmensis Based on genetic PYTHON morphological data PYTHON Ailuropodinae pandas were PYTHON
first PYTHON diverge from other living PYTHON about Mya although no fossils PYTHON this group have
been found before about MyaThe New World shortfaced PYTHON Tremarctinae differentiated from Ursinae
following PYTHON dispersal event into North America during PYTHON midMiocene about Mya They invaded
South America or Ma following formation PYTHON PYTHON Isthmus PYTHON Panama Their earliest fossil
representative PYTHON Plionarctos PYTHON North America c Ma This genus PYTHON probably PYTHON
direct ancestor PYTHON PYTHON North American shortfaced PYTHON genus Arctodus PYTHON South American
shortfaced PYTHON Arctotherium PYTHON PYTHON spectacled PYTHON Tremarctos represented by both an
extinct North American species T floridanus PYTHON PYTHON lone surviving representative PYTHON
PYTHON Tremarctinae PYTHON South American spectacled PYTHON T ornatus The subfamily Ursinae
experienced PYTHON dramatic proliferation PYTHON taxa about Mya coincident with major environmental
changes PYTHON first members PYTHON PYTHON genus Ursus appeared around this time The sloth PYTHON
PYTHON PYTHON modern survivor PYTHON one PYTHON PYTHON earliest lineages PYTHON diverge during this
radiation event Mya it took on its peculiar morphology related PYTHON its diet PYTHON termites
PYTHON ants no later than by PYTHON early Pleistocene By Mya PYTHON species Ursus minimus appears
PYTHON PYTHON fossil record PYTHON Europe apart from its size it was nearly identical PYTHON todays
Asian black PYTHON It PYTHON likely ancestral PYTHON all PYTHON within Ursinae perhaps aside from
PYTHON sloth PYTHON Two lineages evolved from U minimus PYTHON black PYTHON including PYTHON sun
PYTHON PYTHON Asian black PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON American black PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON brown PYTHON
which includes PYTHON polar PYTHON Modern brown PYTHON evolved from U minimus via Ursus etruscus
which itself PYTHON ancestral PYTHON PYTHON extinct Pleistocene cave PYTHON Species PYTHON Ursinae
have migrated repeatedly into North America from Eurasia as early as Mya during PYTHON early
Pliocene The polar PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON most recently evolved species PYTHON descended from PYTHON
population PYTHON brown PYTHON that became isolated PYTHON northern latitudes by glaciation years
ago Phylogeny The relationship PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON family with other carnivorans PYTHON shown
PYTHON PYTHON following phylogenetic tree which PYTHON based on PYTHON molecular phylogenetic
analysis PYTHON six genes PYTHON Flynn Note that although they PYTHON called PYTHON PYTHON some
languages red pandas PYTHON raccoons PYTHON their close relatives PYTHON not PYTHON but rather
musteloidsThere PYTHON two phylogenetic hypotheses on PYTHON relationships among extant PYTHON
fossil PYTHON species One PYTHON all species PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON classified PYTHON seven
subfamilies as adopted here PYTHON related articles Amphicynodontinae Hemicyoninae Ursavinae
Agriotheriinae Ailuropodinae Tremarctinae PYTHON Ursinae Below PYTHON PYTHON cladogram PYTHON
PYTHON subfamilies PYTHON PYTHON after McLellan PYTHON Reiner PYTHON Qiu et al The second
alternative phylogenetic hypothesis was implemented by McKenna et al PYTHON classify all PYTHON
PYTHON species into PYTHON superfamily Ursoidea with Hemicyoninae PYTHON Agriotheriinae being
classified PYTHON PYTHON family Hemicyonidae Amphicynodontinae under this classification were
classified as stempinnipeds PYTHON PYTHON superfamily Phocoidea In PYTHON McKenna PYTHON Bell
classification both PYTHON PYTHON pinnipeds PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON parvorder PYTHON carnivoran
mammals known as Ursida along with PYTHON extinct PYTHON dogs PYTHON PYTHON family Amphicyonidae
Below PYTHON PYTHON cladogram based on McKenna PYTHON Bell classification The phylogeny PYTHON
extant PYTHON species PYTHON shown PYTHON PYTHON cladogram based on complete mitochondrial DNA
sequences from Yu et al The giant panda followed by PYTHON spectacled PYTHON PYTHON clearly PYTHON
oldest species The relationships PYTHON PYTHON other species PYTHON not very well resolved though
PYTHON polar PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON brown PYTHON form PYTHON close grouping Physical characteristics
Size The PYTHON family includes PYTHON most massive extant terrestrial members PYTHON PYTHON order
Carnivora The polar PYTHON PYTHON considered PYTHON be PYTHON largest extant species with adult
males weighing kilograms pounds PYTHON measuring metres ft PYTHON ft PYTHON in total length The
smallest species PYTHON PYTHON sun PYTHON which ranges kg lb PYTHON weight PYTHON cm PYTHON in
length Prehistoric North PYTHON South American shortfaced PYTHON were PYTHON largest species known
PYTHON have lived The latter estimated PYTHON have weighed kg lb PYTHON stood m ft PYTHON tall Body
weight varies throughout PYTHON year PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON temperate PYTHON arctic climates as they
build up fat reserves PYTHON PYTHON summer PYTHON autumn PYTHON lose weight during PYTHON winter
Morphology Bears PYTHON generally bulky PYTHON robust animals with short tails They PYTHON sexually
dimorphic with regard PYTHON size with males typically being larger Larger species tend PYTHON show
increased levels PYTHON sexual dimorphism PYTHON comparison PYTHON smaller species Relying as they
do on strength rather than speed PYTHON have relatively short limbs with thick bones PYTHON support
their bulk The shoulder blades PYTHON PYTHON pelvis PYTHON correspondingly massive The limbs PYTHON
much straighter than those PYTHON PYTHON big cats as there PYTHON no need for them PYTHON flex
PYTHON PYTHON same way due PYTHON PYTHON differences PYTHON their gait The strong forelimbs PYTHON
used PYTHON catch prey excavate dens dig out burrowing animals turn over rocks PYTHON logs PYTHON
locate prey PYTHON club large creatures Unlike most other land carnivorans PYTHON PYTHON
plantigrade They distribute their weight toward PYTHON hind feet which makes them look lumbering
when they walk They PYTHON capable PYTHON bursts PYTHON speed but soon tire PYTHON as PYTHON result
mostly rely on ambush rather than PYTHON chase Bears can stand on their hind feet PYTHON sit up
straight with remarkable balance Their front paws PYTHON flexible enough PYTHON grasp fruit PYTHON
leaves Bears nonretractable claws PYTHON used for digging climbing tearing PYTHON catching prey The
claws on PYTHON front feet PYTHON larger than those on PYTHON back PYTHON may be PYTHON hindrance
when climbing trees black PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON most arboreal PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON have
PYTHON shortest claws Pandas PYTHON unique PYTHON having PYTHON bony extension on PYTHON wrist
PYTHON PYTHON front feet which acts as PYTHON thumb PYTHON PYTHON used for gripping bamboo shoots
as PYTHON animals feedMost mammals have agouti hair with each individual hair shaft having bands
PYTHON color corresponding PYTHON two different types PYTHON melanin pigment Bears however have
PYTHON single type PYTHON melanin PYTHON PYTHON hairs have PYTHON single color throughout their
length apart from PYTHON tip which PYTHON sometimes PYTHON different shade The coat consists PYTHON
long guard hairs which form PYTHON protective shaggy covering PYTHON short dense hairs which form
an insulating layer trapping air close PYTHON PYTHON skin The shaggy coat helps maintain body heat
during winter hibernation PYTHON PYTHON shed PYTHON PYTHON spring leaving PYTHON shorter summer
coat Polar PYTHON have hollow translucent guard hairs which gain heat from PYTHON sun PYTHON
conduct it PYTHON PYTHON darkcolored skin below They have PYTHON thick layer PYTHON blubber for
extra insulation PYTHON PYTHON soles PYTHON their feet have PYTHON dense pad PYTHON fur While
PYTHON tend PYTHON be uniform PYTHON color some species may have markings on PYTHON chest or face
PYTHON PYTHON giant panda has PYTHON bold blackandwhite pelageBears have small rounded ears so as
PYTHON minimize heat loss but neither their hearing or sight PYTHON particularly acute Unlike many
other carnivorans they have color vision perhaps PYTHON help them distinguish ripe nuts PYTHON
fruits They PYTHON unique among carnivorans PYTHON not having touchsensitive whiskers on PYTHON
muzzle however they have an excellent sense PYTHON smell better than that PYTHON PYTHON dog or
possibly any other mammal They use smell for signalling PYTHON each other either PYTHON warn off
rivals or detect mates PYTHON for finding food Smell PYTHON PYTHON principal sense used by PYTHON
PYTHON locate most PYTHON their food PYTHON they have excellent memories which helps them PYTHON
relocate places where they have found food before The skulls PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON massive providing
anchorage for PYTHON powerful masseter PYTHON temporal jaw muscles The canine teeth PYTHON large
but mostly used for display PYTHON PYTHON molar teeth flat PYTHON crushing Unlike most other
members PYTHON PYTHON Carnivora PYTHON have relatively undeveloped carnassial teeth PYTHON their
teeth PYTHON adapted for PYTHON diet that includes PYTHON significant amount PYTHON vegetable
matter Considerable variation occurs PYTHON dental formula even within PYTHON given species This
may indicate PYTHON PYTHON still PYTHON PYTHON process PYTHON evolving from PYTHON mainly
meateating diet PYTHON PYTHON predominantly herbivorous one Polar PYTHON appear PYTHON have
secondarily reevolved carnassiallike cheek teeth as their diets have switched back towards
carnivory Sloth PYTHON lack lower central incisors PYTHON use their protrusible lips for sucking up
PYTHON termites on which they feed The general dental formula for living PYTHON PYTHON The
structure PYTHON PYTHON larynx PYTHON PYTHON appears PYTHON be PYTHON most basal PYTHON PYTHON
caniforms They possess air pouches connected PYTHON PYTHON pharynx which may amplify their
vocalizationsBears have PYTHON fairly simple digestive system typical for carnivorans with PYTHON
single stomach short undifferentiated intestines PYTHON no cecum Even PYTHON herbivorous giant
panda still has PYTHON digestive system PYTHON PYTHON carnivore as well as carnivorespecific genes
Its ability PYTHON digest cellulose PYTHON ascribed PYTHON PYTHON microbes PYTHON its gut Bears
must spend much PYTHON their time feeding PYTHON order PYTHON gain enough nutrition from foliage
The panda PYTHON particular spends hours PYTHON day feeding Distribution PYTHON habitat Extant
PYTHON PYTHON found PYTHON sixty countries primarily PYTHON PYTHON Northern Hemisphere PYTHON
PYTHON concentrated PYTHON Asia North America PYTHON Europe An exception PYTHON PYTHON spectacled
PYTHON native PYTHON South America it inhabits PYTHON Andean region The sun PYTHON range extends
below PYTHON equator PYTHON Southeast Asia The Atlas PYTHON PYTHON subspecies PYTHON PYTHON brown
PYTHON was distributed PYTHON North Africa from Morocco PYTHON Libya but it became extinct around
PYTHON s The most widespread species PYTHON PYTHON brown PYTHON which occurs from Western Europe
eastwards through Asia PYTHON PYTHON western areas PYTHON North America The American black PYTHON
PYTHON restricted PYTHON North America PYTHON PYTHON polar PYTHON PYTHON restricted PYTHON PYTHON
Arctic Sea All PYTHON remaining species PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON Asian They occur PYTHON PYTHON range
PYTHON habitats which include tropical lowland rainforest both coniferous PYTHON broadleaf forests
prairies steppes montane grassland alpine scree slopes Arctic tundra PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON case
PYTHON PYTHON polar PYTHON ice floes Bears may dig their dens PYTHON hillsides or use caves hollow
logs PYTHON dense vegetation for shelter Behavior PYTHON ecology Brown PYTHON American black PYTHON
PYTHON generally diurnal meaning that they PYTHON active for PYTHON most part during PYTHON day
though they may forage substantially by night Other species may be nocturnal active at night though
female sloth PYTHON with cubs may feed more at daytime PYTHON avoid competition from conspecifics
PYTHON nocturnal predators Bears PYTHON overwhelmingly solitary PYTHON PYTHON considered PYTHON be
PYTHON most asocial PYTHON all PYTHON Carnivora The only times PYTHON PYTHON encountered PYTHON
groups PYTHON mothers with young or occasional seasonal bounties PYTHON rich food such as salmon
runs Fights between males can occur PYTHON older individuals may have extensive scarring which
suggests that maintaining dominance can be intense With their acute sense PYTHON smell PYTHON can
locate carcasses from several kilometres away They use olfaction PYTHON locate other foods
encounter mates avoid rivals PYTHON recognize their cubs Feeding Most PYTHON PYTHON opportunistic
omnivores PYTHON consume more plant than animal matter PYTHON appears PYTHON have evolved from an
ancestor which was PYTHON lowprotein macronutrient omnivore They eat anything from leaves roots
PYTHON berries PYTHON insects carrion fresh meat PYTHON fish PYTHON have digestive systems PYTHON
teeth adapted PYTHON such PYTHON diet At PYTHON extremes PYTHON PYTHON almost entirely herbivorous
giant panda PYTHON PYTHON mostly carnivorous polar PYTHON However all PYTHON feed on any food
source that becomes seasonally available For example Asiatic black PYTHON PYTHON Taiwan consume
large numbers PYTHON acorns when these PYTHON most common PYTHON switch PYTHON ungulates at other
times PYTHON PYTHON yearWhen foraging for plants PYTHON choose PYTHON eat them at PYTHON stage when
they PYTHON at their most nutritious PYTHON digestible typically avoiding older grasses sedges
PYTHON leaves Hence PYTHON more northern temperate areas browsing PYTHON grazing PYTHON more common
early PYTHON spring PYTHON later becomes more restricted Knowing when plants PYTHON ripe for eating
PYTHON PYTHON learned behavior Berries may be foraged PYTHON bushes or at PYTHON tops PYTHON trees
PYTHON PYTHON try PYTHON maximize PYTHON number PYTHON berries consumed versus foliage In autumn
some PYTHON species forage large amounts PYTHON naturally fermented fruits which affects their
behavior Smaller PYTHON climb trees PYTHON obtain mast edible reproductive parts such as acorns
Such masts can be very important PYTHON PYTHON diets PYTHON these species PYTHON mast failures may
result PYTHON longrange movements by PYTHON looking for alternative food sources Brown PYTHON with
their powerful digging abilities commonly eat roots The pandas diet PYTHON over bamboo PYTHON
different species Its strong jaws PYTHON adapted for crushing PYTHON tough stems PYTHON these
plants though they prefer PYTHON eat PYTHON more nutritious leaves Bromeliads can make up PYTHON
PYTHON PYTHON diet PYTHON PYTHON spectacled PYTHON which also has strong jaws PYTHON bite them open
The sloth PYTHON PYTHON not as specialized as polar PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON panda has lost several
front teeth usually seen PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON developed PYTHON long suctioning tongue PYTHON feed
on PYTHON ants termites PYTHON other burrowing insects At certain times PYTHON PYTHON year these
insects can make up PYTHON their diets Some individuals become addicted PYTHON sweets PYTHON
garbage inside towns where tourismrelated waste PYTHON generated throughout PYTHON year Some
species may raid PYTHON nests PYTHON wasps PYTHON bees for PYTHON honey PYTHON immature insects
PYTHON spite PYTHON stinging from PYTHON adults Sun PYTHON use their long tongues PYTHON lick up
both insects PYTHON honey Fish PYTHON an important source PYTHON food for some species PYTHON brown
PYTHON PYTHON particular gather PYTHON large numbers at salmon runs Typically PYTHON PYTHON plunges
into PYTHON water PYTHON seizes PYTHON fish with its jaws or front paws The preferred parts PYTHON
eat PYTHON PYTHON brain PYTHON eggs Small burrowing mammals like rodents may be dug out PYTHON
eaten The brown PYTHON PYTHON both species PYTHON black PYTHON sometimes take large ungulates such
as deer PYTHON bovids mostly PYTHON young PYTHON weak These animals may be taken by PYTHON short
rush PYTHON ambush though hiding young may be stiffed out PYTHON pounced on The polar PYTHON mainly
preys on seals stalking them from PYTHON ice or breaking into their dens They primarily eat PYTHON
highly digestible blubber Large mammalian prey PYTHON typically killed by PYTHON bite PYTHON PYTHON
head or neck or PYTHON PYTHON case PYTHON young simply pinned down PYTHON mauled Predatory behavior
PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON typically taught PYTHON PYTHON young by PYTHON motherBears PYTHON prolific
scavengers PYTHON kleptoparasites stealing food caches from rodents PYTHON carcasses from other
predators For hibernating species weight gain PYTHON important as it provides nourishment during
winter dormancy A brown PYTHON can eat kg lb PYTHON food PYTHON gain kg lb PYTHON fat PYTHON day
prior PYTHON entering its den Communication Bears produce PYTHON number PYTHON vocal PYTHON
nonvocal sounds Tongueclicking grunting or chuffing many be made PYTHON cordial situations such as
between mothers PYTHON cubs or courting couples while moaning huffing snorting or blowing air
PYTHON made when an individual PYTHON stressed Barking PYTHON produced during times PYTHON alarm
excitement or PYTHON give away PYTHON animals position Warning sounds include jawclicking PYTHON
lippopping while teethchatters bellows growls roars PYTHON pulsing sounds PYTHON made PYTHON
aggressive encounters Cubs may squeal bawl bleat or scream when PYTHON distress PYTHON make
motorlike humming when comfortable or nursing Bears sometimes communicate with visual displays such
as standing upright which exaggerates PYTHON individuals size The chest markings PYTHON some
species may add PYTHON this intimidating display Staring PYTHON an aggressive act PYTHON PYTHON
facial markings PYTHON spectacled PYTHON PYTHON giant pandas may help draw attention PYTHON PYTHON
eyes during agonistic encounters Individuals may approach each other by stifflegged walking with
PYTHON head lowered Dominance between PYTHON PYTHON asserted by making PYTHON frontal orientation
showing PYTHON canine teeth muzzle twisting PYTHON neck stretching A subordinate may respond with
PYTHON lateral orientation by turning away PYTHON dropping PYTHON head PYTHON by sitting or lying
downBears may mark territory by rubbing against trees PYTHON other objects which may serve PYTHON
spread their scent This PYTHON usually accompanied by clawing PYTHON biting PYTHON object Bark may
be spread around PYTHON draw attention PYTHON PYTHON marking post Pandas PYTHON known PYTHON mark
objects with urine PYTHON PYTHON waxy substance from their anal glands Polar PYTHON leave behind
their scent PYTHON their tracks which allow individuals PYTHON keep track PYTHON one another PYTHON
PYTHON vast Arctic wilderness Reproduction PYTHON development The mating system PYTHON PYTHON has
variously been described as PYTHON form PYTHON polygyny promiscuity PYTHON serial monogamy During
PYTHON breeding season males take notice PYTHON females PYTHON their vicinity PYTHON females become
more tolerant PYTHON males A male PYTHON may visit PYTHON female continuously over PYTHON period
PYTHON several days or weeks depending on PYTHON species PYTHON test her reproductive state During
this time period males try PYTHON prevent rivals from interacting with their mate Courtship may be
brief although PYTHON some Asian species courting pairs may engage PYTHON wrestling hugging mock
fighting PYTHON vocalizing Ovulation PYTHON induced by mating which can last up PYTHON minutes
depending on PYTHON species Gestation typically lasts months including delayed implantation PYTHON
litter size numbers up PYTHON four cubs Giant pandas may give birth PYTHON twins but they can only
suckle one young PYTHON PYTHON other PYTHON left PYTHON die In northern living species birth takes
place during winter dormancy Cubs PYTHON born blind PYTHON helpless with at most PYTHON thin layer
PYTHON hair relying on their mother for warmth The milk PYTHON PYTHON female PYTHON PYTHON rich
PYTHON fat PYTHON antibodies PYTHON cubs may suckle for up PYTHON PYTHON year after they PYTHON
born By months cubs can follow their mother outside PYTHON den They usually follow her on foot but
sloth PYTHON cubs may ride on their mothers back Male PYTHON play no role PYTHON raising young
Infanticide where an adult male kills PYTHON cubs PYTHON another has been recorded PYTHON polar
PYTHON brown PYTHON PYTHON American black PYTHON but not PYTHON other species Males kill young
PYTHON bring PYTHON female into estrus Cubs may flee PYTHON PYTHON mother defends them even at
PYTHON cost PYTHON her lifeIn some species offspring may become independent around PYTHON next
spring though some may stay until PYTHON female successfully mates again Bears reach sexual
maturity shortly after they disperse at around years depending on PYTHON species Male Alaskan brown
PYTHON PYTHON polar PYTHON may continue PYTHON grow until they PYTHON years old Lifespan may also
vary between species The brown PYTHON can live an average PYTHON years Hibernation Bears PYTHON
northern regions including PYTHON American black PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON grizzly PYTHON hibernate
PYTHON PYTHON winter During hibernation PYTHON PYTHON metabolism slows down its body temperature
decreases slightly PYTHON its heart rate slows from PYTHON normal value PYTHON PYTHON just beats
per minute Bears normally do not wake during their hibernation PYTHON can go PYTHON entire period
without eating drinking urinating or defecating A fecal plug PYTHON formed PYTHON PYTHON colon
PYTHON PYTHON expelled when PYTHON PYTHON wakes PYTHON PYTHON spring If they have stored enough
body fat their muscles remain PYTHON good condition PYTHON their protein maintenance requirements
PYTHON met from recycling waste urea Female PYTHON give birth during PYTHON hibernation period
PYTHON PYTHON roused when doing so Mortality Bears do not have many predators The most important
PYTHON humans PYTHON as they started cultivating crops they increasingly came PYTHON conflict with
PYTHON PYTHON that raided them Since PYTHON invention PYTHON firearms people have been able PYTHON
kill PYTHON with greater ease Felids like PYTHON tiger may also prey on PYTHON particularly cubs
which may also be threatened by canidsBears PYTHON parasitized by eighty species PYTHON parasites
including singlecelled protozoans PYTHON gastrointestinal worms PYTHON nematodes PYTHON flukes
PYTHON their heart liver lungs PYTHON bloodstream Externally they have ticks fleas PYTHON lice A
study PYTHON American black PYTHON found seventeen species PYTHON endoparasite including PYTHON
protozoan Sarcocystis PYTHON parasitic worm Diphyllobothrium mansonoides PYTHON PYTHON nematodes
Dirofilaria immitis Capillaria aerophila Physaloptera sp Strongyloides sp PYTHON others Of these D
mansonoides PYTHON adult C aerophila were causing pathological symptoms By contrast polar PYTHON
have few parasites many parasitic species need PYTHON secondary usually terrestrial host PYTHON
PYTHON polar PYTHON life style PYTHON such that few alternative hosts exist PYTHON their
environment The protozoan Toxoplasma gondii has been found PYTHON polar PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON
nematode Trichinella nativa can cause PYTHON serious infection PYTHON decline PYTHON older polar
PYTHON Bears PYTHON North America PYTHON sometimes infected by PYTHON Morbillivirus similar PYTHON
PYTHON canine distemper virus They PYTHON susceptible PYTHON infectious canine hepatitis CAV with
freeliving black PYTHON dying rapidly PYTHON encephalitis PYTHON hepatitis Relationship with humans
Conservation In modern times PYTHON have come under pressure through encroachment on their habitats
PYTHON illegal trade PYTHON PYTHON parts including PYTHON Asian bile PYTHON market though hunting
PYTHON now banned largely replaced by farming The IUCN lists six PYTHON species as vulnerable even
PYTHON two least concern species PYTHON brown PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON American black PYTHON PYTHON at
risk PYTHON extirpation PYTHON certain areas In general these two species inhabit remote areas with
little interaction with humans PYTHON PYTHON main nonnatural causes PYTHON mortality PYTHON hunting
trapping roadkill PYTHON depredationLaws have been passed PYTHON many areas PYTHON PYTHON world
PYTHON protect PYTHON from habitat destruction Public perception PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON often
positive as people identify with PYTHON due PYTHON their omnivorous diets their ability PYTHON
stand on two legs PYTHON their symbolic importance Support for PYTHON protection PYTHON widespread
at least PYTHON more affluent societies The giant panda has become PYTHON worldwide symbol PYTHON
conservation The Sichuan Giant Panda Sanctuaries which PYTHON home PYTHON around PYTHON PYTHON wild
panda population gained PYTHON UNESCO World Heritage Site designation PYTHON Where PYTHON raid
crops or attack livestock they may come into conflict with humans In poorer rural regions attitudes
may be more shaped by PYTHON dangers posed by PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON economic costs they cause PYTHON
farmers PYTHON ranchers Attacks Several PYTHON species PYTHON dangerous PYTHON humans especially
PYTHON areas where they have become used PYTHON people elsewhere they generally avoid humans
Injuries caused by PYTHON PYTHON rare but PYTHON widely reported Bears may attack humans PYTHON
response PYTHON being startled PYTHON defense PYTHON young or food or even for predatory reasons
Entertainment hunting food PYTHON folk medicine Bears PYTHON captivity have for centuries been used
for entertainment They have been trained PYTHON dance PYTHON were kept for baiting PYTHON Europe
from at least PYTHON th century There were five bearbaiting gardens PYTHON Southwark London at that
time archaeological remains PYTHON three PYTHON these have survived Across Europe nomadic Romani
PYTHON handlers called Ursari lived by busking with their PYTHON from PYTHON th centuryBears have
been hunted for sport food PYTHON folk medicine Their meat PYTHON dark PYTHON stringy like PYTHON
tough cut PYTHON beef In Cantonese cuisine PYTHON paws PYTHON considered PYTHON delicacy Bear meat
should be cooked thoroughly as it can be infected with PYTHON parasite Trichinella spiralisThe
peoples PYTHON eastern Asia use PYTHON body parts PYTHON secretions notably their gallbladders
PYTHON bile as part PYTHON traditional Chinese medicine More than PYTHON PYTHON thought PYTHON be
kept on farms PYTHON China Vietnam PYTHON South Korea for PYTHON production PYTHON bile Trade
PYTHON PYTHON products PYTHON prohibited under CITES but PYTHON bile has been detected PYTHON
shampoos wine PYTHON herbal medicines sold PYTHON Canada PYTHON United States PYTHON Australia
Cultural depictions Bears have been popular subjects PYTHON art literature folklore PYTHON
mythology The image PYTHON PYTHON mother PYTHON was prevalent throughout societies PYTHON North
America PYTHON Eurasia based on PYTHON females devotion PYTHON protection PYTHON her cubs In many
Native American cultures PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON symbol PYTHON rebirth because PYTHON its
hibernation PYTHON reemergence A widespread belief among cultures PYTHON North America PYTHON
northern Asia associated PYTHON with shaman this may be based on PYTHON solitary nature PYTHON both
Bears have thus been thought PYTHON predict PYTHON future PYTHON shaman were believed PYTHON have
been capable PYTHON transforming into bearsThere PYTHON evidence PYTHON prehistoric PYTHON worship
though this PYTHON disputed by archaeologists It PYTHON possible that PYTHON worship existed PYTHON
early Chinese PYTHON Ainu cultures The prehistoric Finns Siberian peoples PYTHON more recently
Koreans considered PYTHON PYTHON as PYTHON spirit PYTHON their forefathers Artio Dea Artio PYTHON
PYTHON GalloRoman religion was PYTHON Celtic PYTHON goddess Evidence PYTHON her worship has notably
been found at Bern itself named for PYTHON PYTHON Her name PYTHON derived from PYTHON Celtic word
for PYTHON artos In ancient Greece PYTHON archaic cult PYTHON Artemis PYTHON PYTHON form survived
into Classical times at Brauron where young Athenian girls passed an initiation rite as arktoi she
bearsThe constellations PYTHON Ursa Major PYTHON Ursa Minor PYTHON great PYTHON little PYTHON
PYTHON named for their supposed resemblance PYTHON PYTHON from PYTHON time PYTHON Ptolemy The
nearby star Arcturus means guardian PYTHON PYTHON PYTHON as if it were watching PYTHON two
constellations Ursa Major has been associated with PYTHON PYTHON for as much as years since
Paleolithic times PYTHON PYTHON widespread Cosmic Hunt myths These PYTHON found on both sides
PYTHON PYTHON Bering land bridge which was lost PYTHON PYTHON sea some years agoBears PYTHON
popular PYTHON childrens stories including Winnie PYTHON Pooh Paddington Bear Gentle Ben PYTHON The
Brown Bear PYTHON Norway An early version PYTHON Goldilocks PYTHON PYTHON Three Bears was published
as The Three Bears PYTHON by Robert Southey many times retold PYTHON illustrated PYTHON by Arthur
Rackham The HannaBarbera character Yogi Bear has appeared PYTHON numerous comic books animated
television shows PYTHON films The Care Bears began as greeting cards PYTHON PYTHON were featured as
toys on clothing PYTHON PYTHON film Around PYTHON world many childrenand some adultshave teddy
PYTHON stuffed toys PYTHON PYTHON form PYTHON PYTHON named after PYTHON American statesman Theodore
Roosevelt when PYTHON he had refused PYTHON shoot an American black PYTHON tied PYTHON PYTHON
treeBears like other animals may symbolize nations The Russian Bear has been PYTHON common national
personification for Russia from PYTHON th century onward Smokey Bear has become PYTHON part PYTHON
American culture since his introduction PYTHON with his message Only you can prevent forest fires
Organizations The International Association for Bear Research Management also known as PYTHON
International Bear Association PYTHON PYTHON Bear Specialist Group PYTHON PYTHON Species Survival
Commission PYTHON part PYTHON PYTHON International Union for Conservation PYTHON Nature focus on
PYTHON natural history management PYTHON conservation PYTHON PYTHON Bear Trust International works
for wild PYTHON PYTHON other wildlife through four core program initiatives namely Conservation
Education Wild Bear Research Wild Bear Management PYTHON Habitat ConservationSpecialty
organizations for each PYTHON PYTHON eight species PYTHON PYTHON worldwide include Vital Ground for
PYTHON brown bear Moon Bears for PYTHON Asiatic black bear Black Bear Conservation Coalition for
PYTHON North American black bear Polar Bears International for PYTHON polar bear Bornean Sun Bear
Conservation Centre for PYTHON sun bear Wildlife SOS for PYTHON sloth bear Andean Bear Conservation
Project for PYTHON Andean bear Chengdu Research Base PYTHON Giant Panda Breeding for PYTHON giant
panda See also List PYTHON fictional bears List PYTHON individual bears Notes References Citations
General PYTHON cited references Ward Paul Kynaston Suzanne Wild Bears PYTHON PYTHON World New York
Facts on File ISBN OCLC Further reading Brunner Bernd Bears A Brief History Yale University Press
ISBN Domico Terry Newman Mark Bears PYTHON PYTHON World Facts on File ISBN Faulkner William The
Bear Curley Publishing ISBN External links The Bears Project Information reports PYTHON images
PYTHON European brown PYTHON PYTHON other living species The Bear Book PYTHON Curriculum Guide
PYTHON compilation PYTHON stories about all eight species PYTHON PYTHON worldwide including STEM
lessons rooted PYTHON PYTHON research ecology PYTHON conservation